Welcome to Eaglebrook Church.
My name is Drew and we are so glad that all of you chose to be with us here today.
I want to invite all of you to stay and join us.
And whether you are here in the room or joining us online, we believe something really powerful happens when we gather as a group of people and sing the songs that we're going to sing today.
These words remind us of the goodness and faithfulness of a God who loves us and a God who is for us.
So we want to invite you all to sing along.
So here we go.
in my life.
Nothing ever caught me by surprise.
You are my soul.
You are in control.
You have been the savior from the start.
Standing on the truth of who you are.
And I'm never gonna stop, never gonna stop.
Praising your own name.
You have brought me through the fight.
I'm never gonna stop, never gonna stop
And I'm never gonna stop, never gonna stop praising your name You've brought me through the fire and I'm never gonna be the same Your presence changes me I am a heart set free So I'm never gonna stop, never gonna
one more song together.
And this next song, the very first line says, what joy to know you, Lord, to walk in your ways.
And if I'm honest, as I think about even singing those lyrics, it's not normally how I would talk or even describe my relationship with Jesus.
If you were to catch me out and about us, just not the language I would maybe use.
But as I look at my life, as I think about my own life, Jesus has absolutely changed everything.
And when I talk with my wife, we often say, I can't imagine it, especially with the things that we've walked through in our marriage or in our lives, can't imagine how we would go through life without Jesus.
We can't imagine how others go through their lives and their circumstances without a foundation, without an unshakeable faith in Jesus.
And in Jesus himself said that we would experience trouble in this world, but he said, take heart for I've overcome this world.
So we may experience fear or anxiety or doubt, but we don't have to.
He sacrificed his life so that we could experience hope and peace and joy.
And that's what I want for you and what we want to remind ourselves in this moment as we sing this next song, that Jesus is worthy, worthy of our praise because he's holy.
And he's holy, he's set apart because he sacrificed his life for us.
so that we could experience those things.
And so let's remind ourselves as we sing this song that he's worthy of our praise, because all that he's done for us in our lives as we continue to face into whatever it is that we're facing into.
So let's sing this together.
God, you are holy.
You're worthy of our praise, and we just want to stop in this moment to just acknowledge that.
There's nothing we could ever do.
There's nothing you had to do.
You were already holy and worthy of our praise, but then you sent your son Jesus to sacrifice his life for us so that we could experience not just eternity with you, but a fullness of life here.
And now, and so we are just so grateful for that sacrifice.
God, regardless of what we're walking through in our lives, you're with us.
And as we continue to pray for peace in our city, in our state, we know that you're with us.
And so we just ask you to continue to show up in our lives.
Help us to trust you a little bit more today.
And Jesus, we know that we're able to experience hope and peace and joy because of you.
And so we just ask for that now in our lives.
We ask for that in our circumstances.
And we ask you to go before us, walk with us and alongside us.
And we pray it all in your powerful name, Jesus.
Amen.
How to assist, how to support, and how to survive.
27 years of marriage.
Long time.
I own and run a little store called Sun.
Yeah, go ahead.
So, gift shops.
Well, I was going ahead, and then you were after.
Sorry.
We're talking a lot about those love languages.
I like words of affirmation.
Do you remember the other ones?
Um, the, uh...
I have the cutest little things you've got to come visit sometimes.
All the little cha-chis.
Live, laugh, love.
You know, it's five o'clock somewhere.
You know.
Acts of service, yes.
We're getting closer.
Sometimes you also need just a little reminding.
Yeah.
We still argue about the thermostat.
And that really bothers me.
Sunny Day gifts.
Yeah.
Sometimes he forgets the name.
I like to remind him it is not happy Day gifts.
No.
It is Sunny Day gifts.
I have been married almost 30 years and I haven't touched a thermostat in almost 30 years.
So let that be lesson number one today.
My wife was born in Austin, Minnesota.
And at the age of six, Hormel went on strike and my father-in-law moved the family to Fremont, Nebraska.
So that's where my wife spent most of her childhood.
And this past week, I had an event in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.
We were married in Fremont and I looked at Amy and I said, wouldn't it be fun to leave a little bit early and go do a hometown tour and show me all around Fremont Nebraska?
And she said, why?
And then I promised myself I wasn't going to sing this weekend, but if you ever had a song in your heart and it just has to come out, and this country song by Rascal Flats came to mind and I sang it right to her.
I said, there's a place in your heart, nobody's been.
Take me there.
Things, nobody knows, not even your friends.
Tell me about your mama, your daddy, your hometown.
Show me around.
I want to see it all, which only takes about 20 minutes in Fremont, Nebraska.
And so we did.
We went to Fremont, and she says, let's make this quick.
And we went to the Dairy Queen, where she worked.
We went to the house that she grew up in, and we ended the tour at the church.
where we were married, it'll be 30 years this October, and we got in the car.
And I'm the more sentimental one in our marriage, I get that.
And she looked at me and she says, are you good?
And I said, I'm good.
She goes, punch it.
We got to get to Sioux Falls.
So I am still learning about my wife.
That's why I love doing tours like that.
And on the way out, I said, hey, there's a cemetery.
Do we need to go see anyone?
And she said, we're good, let's go.
I said, but these are the moments, 30 years into marriage that we can take to still learn something about one another.
And I don't know if you've ever had a relationship that you poured yourself into and the other person never really received it.
Could be a parent, a child, a spouse, it could be a co-worker, a friend.
And you think to yourself, I'm saying all the right things.
I feel like I'm doing the right stuff
But it's just not connecting.
We see this with newlyweds all the time.
Because early in romantic relationship formation, we tend to downplay our differences, okay?
And we shine a spotlight on the things we have in common and our similarities.
But a year or two into marriage, we start thinking, okay, why is what worked in dating and engagement not working now?
I see it in the counseling office all the time.
A husband will list for me everything he does around the house.
And all the stuff he does to take care of the car and everything he does to take care of the family.
And I look over to the wife and she says, I don't feel loved, I don't feel heard, I don't feel cared for, I don't feel valued.
And it's for all those reasons that this weekend, I'm excited for us to look at the love languages.
Dr. Gary Chapman released the Five Love Languages book in 1992.
It's the best-selling marriage book of all time.
And last year, Dr. Chapman and Dr. Isles and Leslie Parrot invited me to join the Five Love Languages teaching team.
And I dove in, not just to be a part of the team, but I wanted to learn more about the love languages for Amy and I in our marriage.
And what I didn't know up until last year is that there are 22 dialects
underneath the five love languages.
I meet people all the time, they've never read the book, but they can tell me what their love language is.
These dialects, they're what helps us from having things get lost in translation.
For example, a couple years ago, I was in London with my family, we were at a store, I went up to the cashier, and I asked, where is your nearest restroom?
And she said, what's your preference?
I said mail.
And we stood there in awkward silence.
Something was getting lost in translation.
She thought I asked, where's your nearest restaurant?
We weren't connecting.
I don't know if you know this about England, but they speak English there.
We speak English, but we don't have the same dialect.
And even when you know your spouse's love language, if you don't know the nuance or the dialect to dial in, things get lost.
In their latest book, Doctors Chapman and Parrot wrote called, The Love Language That Matters Most.
They tell the story of a husband who knew his wife was gonna be coming home late from a long day of meetings.
And so he thought, I'm gonna really lean into her love language, which was acts of service.
and I'm gonna get home and I'm gonna prepare a nice gourmet meal.
He spent hours making this meal.
We're talking tablecloth, candles on the table, lights them, she walks through the door, exhausted, and he's basically like, voila!
And she's like, ugh.
This isn't at all what I was wanting when I got home.
I prefer those candles around the bathtub.
Because on the way home, I was thinking about a bath, sweatpants, and bed.
He had the right heart, and he knew her love language, but it was the dialect that meant everything.
So here's what we hear all the time with couples.
Oh, this is gonna be a wonderful weekend.
I hope he really pays attention.
I hope she really listens because she needs to learn more about me.
He needs to learn more about me.
And some of you might be in a place in your marriage after years that you're in drift.
Not all that happy.
You don't feel like you're connecting.
Love tanks pretty low and you're wanting some change.
And so here's where we're starting this weekend.
If you don't like what you're getting out of your marriage, change what you put into it.
Let's go home.
That's really all we need to know right there.
That's called personal responsibility.
That's learning.
about your spouse so you can change your serve, not your spouse.
I love props, you know I love props.
I keep a ping pong paddle and ping pong balls in my office and to make this point right here because when I hear couples going at each other and like just real harsh and demanding toward each other, I'll just grab a ping pong paddle and take the ping pong balls and go, whap, and I'll start hitting them with ping pong.
I'm very, I want a real engaged counseling session.
And they start going like this.
And I'm like, that's what I, that's how you guys are coming across to each other right now.
You're slamming this serve.
I wanna encourage you to change your serve.
And then I'll say, it's real simple.
And then I'll start lobbing it to them.
Instead of sitting there, I wish he'd open up, I wish he'd talk.
When he gets home, I never get, how about just, try a lob.
Change what you put into it.
Now you've heard it said, Ted, it takes two.
I know it takes two.
It takes two, but it often starts with one.
And this weekend, I'm hoping you make the decision to be the one to make the change.
But I want to take us first to the words of Jesus to remind us why we're even doing this.
Why are we even talking about love languages?
In a very important Bible study method, when you're reading the Bible, when you see repetition, I always tell people, go back and reread because repetition is there for emphasis.
And watch what Jesus says, a new command I give you, love one another.
As I have loved you, so you must,
Love one another.
By this, everyone will know that you are my disciples if you love one another.
Here's the outline of what Jesus just shared.
This is commanded, Jesus commanded it.
He modeled it, and this is what I love about the love language, just conversation.
We know we're called to love one another, but the love language just teaches how, how to better love those in our life, how to better love spouse, children, parents, friends,
And so Jesus modeled this.
He shows, if you read the gospel, he used physical touch.
He placed hands on the sick to heal them.
When the disciples tried to keep the children from Jesus, he grew in dignity.
He brought the children to him, placed his hands on them and blessed them.
When the disciples were trying to figure things out, Jesus used words of affirmation to say, take heart.
The Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve.
He ultimately gave his life.
And when you think of quality time, Jesus, oh, plenty of times we read him, getting alone with the disciples.
I even love how the Bible says there were times he got away so that no one knew where they were.
That's so that he could have quality time with them.
Jesus showed us how to do this.
He modeled it for us.
And when we learn how to love one another better, it points other people to Jesus.
And so the question we're gonna answer hopefully this weekend for you to encourage you is what is a love language?
When we use this term, what is a love language?
Some people, and you're probably most common when we hear is chocolate.
Chocolate is my love language.
And I would say every time people throw me a love language, they're like, oh, Dr. Chapman missed one.
I think the sixth love language is typically it fits within one of the other five love languages.
And now with the dialects that we have, you can dig even
And if you make somebody chocolate, right, that is an act of service.
If you give them chocolate, that's receiving gifts.
I would probably wear this shirt right here.
I've said for years, sarcasm is the sixth love language.
But it's not a love language.
My wife actually believes this right here.
Fast delivery is my love language.
But this is important, because you might see boxes on the front step and go, oh, well, she loves gifts.
I learned this last year, 30 years of marriage.
You have to, this is what's so important about never, never stop learning about your spouse.
My wife, I've always known she has two love languages, acts of service and quality time, which means I serve her for long periods of time.
That's what these two love languages coming together mean.
But I didn't know her dialects.
And that's where things would get lost in translation for us.
And her primary dialect,
under acts of service is saving time.
Anything she can do to save time, anything I can do to help her save time is, so every time I see a box, I realize she got something that saved her an hour trip to the store.
Okay, so this is true of every single person in here.
This is true of every single person across all of our campuses and watching online.
We know the next two things to be true.
Our deepest emotional need is to feel loved.
Every person you meet today wants to be seen, heard, valued, cared for, and loved.
But this is where love languages come in.
It's where it gets a little tricky.
We all feel loved in different ways.
This is why we need to learn the how.
behind it.
For example, some of you today, there are ladies in here, you love it when he brings you home flowers.
You're like, that is the most romantic thing he can do.
Not for Amy.
I bring her flowers.
She says, thank you.
We all are somewhere with all of these love languages, and she'll say thank you, but it doesn't feel, it gives baby puts a little under the love tank, but doesn't feel it like acts of service or quality time, and she'll take and go, thank you, give me a kiss, put him in the vase and walk off.
I'm like,
Let's come back to the flowers for just a second.
Now I probably have to tell you how much I paid for these flowers.
And the time it took me to get them, because you just don't seem, but that's not Amy.
Amy, let me tell you, Amy, I love when we're in the family room at night and watching something, she'll grab her phone and she'll start typing in and she'll look over at me and she'll say, thank you.
And I'll say, what?
She goes, you just got me something real nice.
You know what romance is in our home?
Cutting out the middleman.
That's romance in our home.
And I just say you're welcome and we move on.
Here's another one.
This is not Amy Cunningham or Ted Cunningham's primary love language.
We ain't cuddlers.
We don't cuddle.
We know we probably should.
We see people do it.
You see it in TV and movies and we know in Minnesota this means survival.
I get that.
But they're just, physical touch is a foreign love language for us.
But there are times I'll look at her and be like, hey, let's cuddle.
She's like, all right.
And I'll get on the couch with her.
And both of us at the same time after about a minute and a half are like, get off of me, I'm hot.
My arms asleep.
Yeah, so it's just, it's not us.
But let me tell you what does fill my wife's love tank.
Just pull out the planning calendar.
You know what January one looks like in our home every year?
January one is an all day planning meeting in the Cunningham home.
And I mean, all of our schedules, all of our plans, Amy, she starts preparing for it in the middle of December.
We bring in the new year, but then we get up that morning and Amy is like, she's rocking back and forth ready to go.
And I'm like, oh, let's do this.
Not my thing.
But you know why I do it?
It's her thing.
She wants this and it fills her love tank.
You know what fills my love tank?
It's real simple.
A note that just says thank you for working so hard.
There are three dialects under words of affirmation.
Compliments, appreciation, and encouragement.
And I'll be honest with you, I like them all.
They're all part of my dialects.
But you begin to dial them in a little bit more as we go through.
Your love language, as we answer this question, your love language comes down to how you best receive love from others.
But if Dr. Chapman were standing on this stage right here, he would tell you, he doesn't want you to learn the love languages so you can know yours only.
He wants you to become fluent in all five so you can better love other people.
So that's the love lines.
And I want to go through them again real quick, give you a definition, break down some of the dialects, wish we could do a deep dive into them.
For those students in the room, you're going to probably leave here and dig into them even more.
But I'm going to start with the most important love.
No, that's not the most important love lines.
But I do.
But even within the complement dialect, there are things I like to be complimented on.
like things I've done, and sometimes it can be achievements, but let me tell you where I don't need a compliment for the way I look, for the way I dress.
I don't need to be told, and you can probably, I'm not the biggest fashion guy on the planet.
And I can come out in the morning, putting a lot of thought into what I'm gonna wear for the day, and I'll walk into the kitchen and Amy will be like, ooh.
She'll like, are you wearing that today?
And I'm like, no, I just put this on for breakfast.
I'm going to change before I leave the house.
I would never go out in this.
And then I walk away.
I have no, but that doesn't, it doesn't drain me, doesn't film.
It's just not, it's not what I'm looking for.
Mark Twain said, I can make it two months on one good compliment.
And let me tell you, this is fuel for those with words of affirmation.
Encouragement is you got this.
Appreciation is thank you.
If this is your spouse's love language or a child's love language,
you would be shocked at how far a thank you goes.
How far a thank you goes.
Let's move on.
Amy and I both.
My next one is quality time.
This is her primary love language.
And the dialects, there's four dialects under quality time, scheduled and unscheduled.
And Amy is scheduled.
I am unscheduled.
I like to be spontaneous.
I like things to pop up during the day and be like, whoa, what a great surprise.
Let's go in that direction.
I put plans together and if they work great, if they don't, I'm okay with that.
Future-oriented and present-oriented are two of the other dialects, and Amy and I are both future-oriented.
But the key with this, words of affirmation is receiving love through written or spoken words.
Quality time is receiving love through meaningful conversation and shared activities.
So here's where you really have to dial it in.
What shared activity works best for you?
I've heard from couples that we love playing board games, Ted.
And we have great conversations while playing board games.
The problem with that in our marriage and in our family is none of us are speaking to each other after playing board games.
We're a highly aggressive and competitive family.
And nothing brings greater joy to my soul as a dad than bankrupting my children in Monopoly.
I live for it.
Amy will look at me and be like, you go easy on them.
Go easy on them.
Is the real world going to go easy on them?
I will wipe every hotel and house off this board and foreclose on every last property.
They're going to learn some hard lessons here today.
You've seen that video online of that kid crying after getting wiped out of Monopoly and mom goes, honey, what's the matter?
And he goes, taxes.
Honey, it's just a game.
It's the worst part of the game, taxes.
So that's not our shared activity.
And by the way, with quality time, the activity is not as important as the conversation.
So if words of affirmation is speaking, quality time's really about what can I do to get your undivided attention?
And Amy and I found our shared activity this past summer.
We would always do this, but we didn't realize how valuable this was for us and filled both of us up.
My wife hates driving.
She can't stand driving because she could be doing something else.
She could be getting work done.
She could be sending a text, sending an email.
And so when I drive her to do errands, she loves it.
She goes, I got these five places to go.
Since I don't like shopping, I drop her off at the door at Target.
She goes in, I go parking the no parking zone, revving the engine, waiting for it to go.
And then I see her come out and I pick her up and we're off to the next thing.
She says, thank you, babe.
So she's speaking my language.
I'm saving her.
We're getting it done.
What is your shared activity?
Because Amy's next, she has two primary, two primary love languages, and her next one is acts of service.
The four dialects under acts of service are instilling security.
And for some of you, maybe an early romantic relationship formation, when this person speaks your love language, they're saying to you with that, I prioritize this relationship.
You're important to me, I'm here for the long haul.
For others, a dialect may be alleviating stress.
They like the lady in the first story I shared today who just wanted a bath and bed.
That's all she was looking for.
Others that can be conveying care.
So an act of service could be bed and breakfast.
Breakfast, bed and breakfast, that'd be kind of awkward.
Breakfast in bed.
But let me tell you, I know that's not one way to love Amy because if I tie her up and keep her schedule and I have the breakfast there, she's like, I could be getting stuff done.
Do I have to sit here and eat this?
That's not her dialect.
Her dialect is the fourth, saving time, saving time.
The next one is receiving gifts.
Both of my children have this as their primary love language.
True, true.
And you know what I want?
You know, if acts of service is receiving love through someone else's time to save you time, someone else's energy to save you time and to make your life easier.
Receiving gifts is receiving these tangible expressions, gifts that say two things.
You were thinking of me and you know me.
And the dialects under this, my son and daughter have very different dialects.
My daughter is the sentimental one.
So she moves towards the dialect of simple and heartfelt.
So when I would travel and if I brought back a magnet from the state, I was just in.
She'd be like, this is the best thing ever, thank you.
Daddy, but my son, he's a little more extravagant in the dialect and functional.
He likes watches.
And I tell him, think Timex not Rolex.
That's where we're going with this.
But I want you to know, this is the foreign love language.
Receiving gifts is the foreign love language for most people.
If this is your primary love language, this doesn't mean you're materialistic.
That's not what that means at all.
The next one.
Physical touch actually has the most dialects with seven dialects, but this is receiving love when words fall short.
It can be comforting touch at a funeral when someone has passed away and you don't know what to say that you just walk up and you stand near someone.
You put your arm around them.
It can be romantic, comforting, playful, ooh, I've told Amy, listen, when my wife tickles me,
That's hate, not love.
Because this is not my primary love language.
There's protective touch.
I like to walk on the side of the street from people, you know, to protect them from cars coming in.
Maybe going into a store, you grab an arm and put the hand on the small of the back of your offering that protective touch.
affectionate touch, all these great dialects.
And I'm hoping one thing sticks out today so that you can answer this question sometime this week.
What are some new ways I can show up for you?
Not how I can get my tank filled, but what are some new ways I can show up for you in our marriage, in our relationship?
My primary love language is how I best receive and feel love.
but I want to become fluent in all five to better love others.
I've been on this, I've made my kids take these assessments, I've made staff, I've asked church and I've asked people, I want to see your reports, I want to know what your love language is and your dialects and one of our staff guys came up to me and he goes, I'm kind of embarrassed to tell you this, but my primary love language is physical touch and I go, come here buddy, that's okay, I'll get you.
If you need a hug and it's not mine,
So I, and I don't need a hug, but if you want one, bring it in.
I'm gonna give you one.
But then he goes, no, no, no, I don't want you to start hugging me every time you see me.
His is more of that affectionate touch.
His is more of the, when I walk into a meeting and he's sitting there, if I walk by him and just take my fist and kind of tap him on the shoulder, that just says, I see you're here.
I just recognized you in the room.
It's a high five sometimes after a great shot in golf
This particular staff member just got the biggest trout at Dogwood Canyon and I was able to net it for him and there were multiple high fives during that.
So you're finding out and becoming fluent in this and saying, I might not be comfortable with this one.
This isn't my thing, that's okay.
But Jesus modeled for us how to love others well.
And I wanna become fluent in all five to better love other people.
You've heard it said that love is a decision, not a feeling.
A better way to say it is love is more than a feeling because love is a decision and a feeling.
That's what I want the takeaway to be today.
Love is a decision and a feeling.
And so when you put this, I've been using the terms primary and foreign love language.
I want us to get into understanding the next step for me as I find new ways to show up for you.
So if you go back to this scale,
right here, and I'm going to put them in order for you of Ted Cunningham.
I shared with you words of affirmation as primary, quality time right behind that, acts of service at the far end, receiving gifts and physical touch.
The reason why this is important is because love is a decision and a feeling.
Stick with that for just a second as you start to think about, okay,
This really fills me up.
I really like this.
This not so much, but it might be a secondary and I don't want to neglect that in your life.
In the song of songs, two, five, we read, sustain me with raisins, refresh me with apples.
I love to share this passage because this is what we call the tingles or the sparks, for I am sick with love.
That is a feeling.
Love is a feeling.
You have a physical reaction to a person that you love, but guess what?
After you've been married for 30 years, you're not always feeling it.
And it's at that moment you have to be reminded of your decision.
And that's when the foreign love language and the secondary love language comes in and say, I'm gonna become fluent in all five to better love other people.
Receiving love through your primary love language is a feeling.
I felt heard, I felt seen, I felt loved, I felt cared for.
But giving love through your foreign love language is a decision.
And that's the decision I'm hoping we're making this weekend as we find new ways to show up for one another.
What I want to do to close out our time, almost like an introduction or a primer to the love language, is walk you through the song of songs and show you how all five love languages are in there.
I've been seeing it in the life of Jesus as I read the Bible.
I'm like, where does that fit with the love languages?
And when you get into the song of songs, they jump off the page.
If you're unfamiliar with this Old Testament book, it's Hebrew poetry, and it's the duet between Solomon and the Shulomite woman.
Chapters one and two, they're dating, courting.
Chapter three, they get married.
Chapter four, they're at the J.W.
Marriott for the honeymoon.
Chapters five through eight, they're building faithfulness and commitment into
the marriage.
And so words of affirmation probably jump off the page the most because it's these lyrics going back and forth.
And we read how beautiful you are, my darling, oh, how beautiful.
This is Solomon speaking to her.
Your eyes are doves.
He begins praising her beauty.
When you get to the Song of Songs chapter 4,
They're at the honeymoon.
She begins undressing in front of her husband.
He's praising her beauty that when you get to verse seven of chapter four, he says, you are altogether beautiful, my darling.
And it's what every single wife in here wants to hear.
It's what every single wife watching across our campuses want to hear.
I am altogether beautiful.
You obviously see physical touch throughout the book.
Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth for your love is more delightful than wine.
I love this in chapter two, verse six, his left arm is under my head and his right arm embraces me.
I don't know if you get active when you read the Bible, but sometimes you got to act this stuff out.
And I love walking into the kitchen.
I mean, you see that was a different type of walk.
That wasn't just how I walked out here early.
Let me try that again.
That felt real awkward.
She got real uncomfortable down there.
So, I can't even do it now.
So, babe, how's that?
That's turn anyway.
Amy's watching, right?
I'm sorry, babe.
Okay, I apologize.
She knows, she goes, that's what I feel every time.
Anyway, I walk in, I like to grab her behind the head, good firm, and bring her down to here, put my arm around her, give her a little coo-coo.
I mean, I go after it.
But remember, I told you, this is our, it's definitely not primary.
And she's looking at me like, I got dinner to make, let me go.
But that's physical touch.
We're gonna remember that one for a long time to come.
Acts of Service.
Now, at first reading this, this has always been the verse for me about, you might even read quality time in this one, but the reason I go with Acts of Service when I read chapter two, verse three, is because so many of the dialects from Acts of Service are in this one verse.
instilling security, conveying care, alleviating stress.
Time has slowed down.
Look at, like an apple tree among the trees of the forest is my beloved among the young men.
This is the Sheila, my woman.
And again, they're not yet married.
That's the next chapter.
I delight to sit in his shade.
He brings me protection.
There's security when I'm with him.
And his fruit is sweet to my taste.
There's great care when I'm in his presence.
We also get receiving gifts.
You've heard it said something old, something new, something borrowed, something blue going to a wedding.
I've actually been using the love language.
I have a wedding next weekend to think through the gifts.
And I know registries are super important for couples, but typically the registries are very, they lean on the functional dialect.
When I wanna go after some more heartfelt stuff sometimes, if that's more of what, and I make every couple that I counsel now go through these assessments so I can dial in love languages and dialects, and look at what we read in chapter three at the wedding of Solomon and the Sheila My Woman.
Come out and look, you daughters of Zion.
Look on King Solomon wearing a crown.
This is gonna be speaking of a royal crown.
This is gonna be speaking of a crown that brings joy and happiness.
The crown with which his mother crowned him
or gave him on the day of his wedding, so this is Bathsheba, giving him a gift on the day of his wedding, the day his heart rejoiced.
So maybe this conversation for you and your home, or as we love to say, every marriage is a duet in need of great backup singers,
And you become a backup singer to another couple and you find out receiving gifts as their love language and whatever the dialect is underneath that, that you start to move and be more thoughtful showing up with, hey, I not only was thinking of you, but I know you.
And then this last one, quality time.
Now they've been married.
The Shulamite woman invites the busy, shepherd king, like, okay, I gotta get you out of town.
out of the city, I gotta take you someplace where you won't be distracted by everything that you have to do.
Come, my beloved, let us go to Duluth.
Let us spend the night at the American.
Let us go early to the vineyards to see if the vines have butted, if their blossoms have opened, and if the pomegranates are in bloom and watches.
This is a time to get away to focus on their relationship, and it's a time to get away for intimacy,
and romance because she says, there I will give you my love.
And the Hebrew for that is bound bound, chicken, chicken, bound bound is what that is.
Quality time.
I hope when you read your Bible, I hope that when you head out today from a parking lot or whether you're at home or that when you turn this off that you go, okay,
What are some new ways I can show up for you?
And here's what I always want to encourage couples with.
We do not need to be mind readers.
I can look and try to discover what's working, but tell me, tell me.
So ask great questions and then go with the follow up question.
Try to dial in not just the love language, but the dialect to say there've been times this was lost in translation, but I want to get it right because I am not interested in changing you.
I am interested in bringing a new serve to this marriage, a new serve to this relationship.
Would you pray with me?
Father, so grateful for the work that you're doing in the hearts and lives of couples from young budding love to seasoned couples across our church and our guests today.
Just continue
to work in marriages for the couple that's in drift, for the couple that's disconnected, for the spouse that doesn't feel loved, cared for, seen, valued, heard, that today might just be one step in a new direction, turning the marriage around, asking the question, how can I better show up for you?
That we would change, starting with us ourselves,
and then looking at how we can pour into the other, for taking personal responsibility for our hearts and lives.
For the one who's never placed faith in Jesus, that today would be the day of their salvation, that they would confess with their mouth Jesus as Lord and believe in their heart.
He's been raised from the dead, that they will be saved.
And for the dead marriages in the room, the same power that raised Jesus from the dead is the same power that is available to raise a dead marriage.
And we pray all that today in the authority of the name of Jesus, amen.
Love you friends, I hope you have a great week.
We'll see you next time.